Link to apply to University of Arizona: https://www.arizona.edu/admissions

Here is the evaluation criteria for applications for the University of Arizona College of Engineering:
The University of Arizona and the College of Engineering perform a comprehensive review of students applying for admission. In particular, the following will be considered:

-Core GPA as defined by the Arizona Board of Regents (minimum 3.0 required for College of Engineering, Admissions GPA for Software Engineering: 2.25)
-Math and science completion/grades
-Senior year coursework
-Rigor of high school classes (AP, IB, honors, etc.)
-Optional standardized test score (ACT or SAT)
-Optional personal statement

Here is the application process for the University of Arizona College of Engineering:

-Complete the University of Arizona online application, and indicate Engineering (All Majors) as your intended degree. You must also select a second-choice major.
-Self-report your grades, referencing an unofficial transcript or a copy of your report cards. Prior to the start of your freshman year, the University will verify your coursework pending submission of an official transcript.

You will receive your admission decision via email and a paper admissions packet.

Once you have been admitted to the College of Engineering, log in to the NextSteps Center to do the following:

-Take the ALEKS math placement exam when available and, if needed, the writing and second language placement exams. Learn about the importance of math placement for engineering.
-Complete the required registration for New Student Orientation.
-Fill out the Residence Life application to guarantee your space in on-campus housing.
-Submit your immunization records.
-Send final official high school transcripts, when prompted by UA Admissions.

More information regarding the evaluation criteria and application process can be found here: https://engineering.arizona.edu/undergrad-admissions/freshmen

Here is the declaring an engineering major website, this website only applies to engineering majors attending the UA, non-declared engineering majors attending the UA and UA students outside the college of engineering: https://advising.engr.arizona.edu

Here are the contents of the declaring engineering major website:

Engineering majors, No Major Selected Engineering students, and UA students outside the College of Engineering may submit an application for admission into an Engineering major after completion of the following:

-Calculus I with a grade of C or better
-12 or more UA credits of coursework within the Engineering curricula, with a GPA that meets the requirements for advanced standing in the requested major. (See chart below.) If Calculus I was completed with a C, grades in required supporting coursework must be higher.
-The courses below represent the more common courses taken by UA Engineering students. For a list of courses specific to each major, please review the four year plans or contact the advisor for the major .

Acceptable Supporting Coursework:
MATH 122 A/B or 125: Calculus I: 5 or 3 units
MATH 129: Calculus II: 3 units
CHEM 151: General Chemistry I: 4 units
CHEM 152: General Chemistry II: 4 units
MSE 110: Solid State Chemistry: 4 units
MCB 181: Introductory Biology: 4 units
PHYS 141: Introductory Mechanics: 4 units
ENGR 102: Introduction to Engineering: 3 units
ECE 175: Programming: 3 units
ENGL 102, 108 , or 109H: English Composition: 3 units

Admissions GPA:
Software Engineering: 2.25

Advisors:
    First-Year Advisors:
        Richard Casillas
        Phil Medlock
        Rani Metz
            engr-advising@arizona.edu
    Software Engineering Advisors:
        Juliana Lincoln
            julianalincoln@arizona.edu
        Christina Hornett
            chornett@arizona.edu
    For more information on advisors in the College of Engineering, go to https://engineering.arizona.edu/undergrad-services/advising

Starting the Application Process:
Once you have met the admissions requirements listed above, click on the major link below to begin the change of major application process.

The Academic Affairs Office will notify you of the results via your official UA email address within seven to 10 work days.

If you have any questions about the application process please email engr-advising@email.arizona.edu. Include your name, student ID number and intended major.

If you would like to delete an existing Engineering major from your current academic program, please email engr-advising@email.arizona.edu using your UA Catmail account. Include your name and student ID number, and specifically state the Engineering degree you wish to delete. If you wish to delete a major outside of Engineering, please contact the major advisor for assistance.

Selecting Desired Major:
NetID Login Required

*Important note: All students must have a UA cumulative grade point average of at least 2.0 to be eligible to change degree programs or move into the College of Engineering. Strong grades in required math, science and engineering classes are good indicators of success in all of our degree programs. You can be denied even if you meet the GPA requirements for the chosen degree program if your math, science and engineering classes are not sufficiently strong.

You must be a continuing UA student to use this form. If you are a new, prospective or incoming transfer or freshman student, please visit our new student admission webpage for academic requirements. You must have completed at least 12 UA engineering degree required units to be considered for admission to an Engineering major. Grades of D or E, or repeated use of GRO’s in math/science/engineering classes will diminish your chances for admission.

Include only grades for classes taken at the University of Arizona. Do not include transfer courses.



